docs/docker.md, before:

# Docker setup

## Prerequisites
 - Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) for your operating system.
 - Run `docker pull lassetk/noresm_land_sites_platform:latest` to pull the image to your local storage.

## Setup the container
All the setup we need for running the container are in [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml). Feel free so edit memory and CPU constrains depending on your available resources.

File mapping between the container and the host is defined in th `volumes:` block. By default, only `data` directory is mapped.

## Run
To run the container, first be sure you are in the main directory containing [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml). Then run following command
``` bash
docker-compose up
```
Once the process is running you can access **make_settings** app at [localhost:5006](localhost:5006) and jupyter notebook environment is accessible at [localhost:8888](localhost:8888) with password: `pass`

To stop the container running press `Ctrl+c`

# Build the container
Once you'd like to test new changes to the setup, you'll need to rebuild the container. To do this, ensure you are in the root directory of the repository and run:
``` bash
docker build . -t <TAG>:<VERSION>
```
- Replace **\<TAG\>** with your repository name on [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/)
- Replace **\<VERSION\>** with any string that you'd like to distinguish your version. By convention `latest` is used to specify latest working version.

After the build process is finished, you should push the new image to the repository. Firstly ensure you are logged in by:
```bash
docker login
```
Consequently push the image:
```bash
docker push <TAG>:<VERSION>
```

Commit message:

add instructions on setting up docker on linux

docs/docker.md, after:

# Docker setup

## Prerequisites
 - Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) for your operating system.
 - Run `docker pull lassetk/noresm_land_sites_platform:latest` to pull the image to your local storage.
 -- Linux: need to use sudo or change [permission](https://https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall)
 -- The image will be kept in a [default location](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/where-are-docker-images-stored-docker-container-paths-explained/) depending on your system.
 - git clone [NorESM_LandSites_Platform](https://github.com/NorESMhub/NorESM_LandSites_Platform.git) to local computer
 
## Setup the container
All the setup we need for running the container are in [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml). Feel free so edit memory and CPU constrains depending on your available resources.

File mapping between the container and the host is defined in the `volumes:` block. By default, only `data` directory of local 'NorESM_LandSites_Platform' folder is mapped. 

## Run
To run the container, first be sure you are in the main directory containing [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml). Then run following command
``` bash
docker-compose up
```
Once the process is running you can access **make_settings** app at [localhost:5006](localhost:5006) and jupyter notebook environment is accessible at [localhost:8888](localhost:8888) with password: `pass`

To stop the container running press `Ctrl+c`

# Build the container
Once you'd like to test new changes to the setup, you'll need to rebuild the container. To do this, ensure you are in the root directory of the repository and run:
``` bash
docker build . -t <TAG>:<VERSION>
```
- Replace **\<TAG\>** with your repository name on [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/)
- Replace **\<VERSION\>** with any string that you'd like to distinguish your version. By convention `latest` is used to specify latest working version.

After the build process is finished, you should push the new image to the repository. Firstly ensure you are logged in by:
```bash
docker login
```
Consequently push the image:
```bash
docker push <TAG>:<VERSION>
```
