docs/land-sites.md, before:

# NorESM land sites

This page will contain descriptions, meta data, and relevant reference hyperlinks
for the included land sites.

## Overview

We currently support 18 sites: 12 [Vestland climate grid](https://betweenthefjords.w.uib.no/vestland-climate-grid/) sites and 6 climate station sites of interest to the [LATICE](https://www.mn.uio.no/geo/english/research/groups/latice/) group. These are locations where there are climate stations and ecological field experiments that make these sites of particular interest.

<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://unpkg.com/leaflet@1.7.1/dist/leaflet.css"
   integrity="sha512-xodZBNTC5n17Xt2atTPuE1HxjVMSvLVW9ocqUKLsCC5CXdbqCmblAshOMAS6/keqq/sMZMZ19scR4PsZChSR7A=="
   crossorigin=""/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css">
<div id="map"></div>
<script src="https://unpkg.com/leaflet@1.7.1/dist/leaflet.js"
   integrity="sha512-XQoYMqMTK8LvdxXYG3nZ448hOEQiglfqkJs1NOQV44cWnUrBc8PkAOcXy20w0vlaXaVUearIOBhiXZ5V3ynxwA=="
   crossorigin=""></script>
   
   
-------------------------------


## [Vestland climate grid](https://betweenthefjords.w.uib.no/vestland-climate-grid/) (SeedClim) sites


| Site name | Lon (X) | Lat (Y) | Elevation (Z) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ALP1 | 8.12343 | 61.0243 | 1208 |
| ALP2 | 7.27596 | 60.8231 | 1097 |
| ALP3 | 7.17561 | 60.8328 | 1213 |
| ALP4 | 6.41504 | 60.9335 | 1088 |
| SUB1 | 8.70466 | 60.8203 | 815  |
| SUB2 | 7.17666 | 60.8760 | 700  |
| SUB3 | 6.63028 | 61.0866 | 769  |
| SUB4 | 6.51468 | 60.5445 | 797  |
| BOR1 | 9.07876 | 61.0355 | 589  |
| BOR2 | 7.16982 | 60.8803 | 474  |
| BOR3 | 6.33738 | 60.6652 | 431  |
| BOR4 | 5.96487 | 60.6901 | 346  |

The Vestland climate grid, often called the SeedClim grid after the first major project that set it up, is a set of calcareous grassland sites across gradients of precipitation and temperature. The sites have been, and still are, host to many ecological reseach projects that study vegetation dynamics, plant interactions, functional traits and climate responses. Each site also has loggers for temperature and other climatic variables: ...

![Vestland climate grid](https://betweenthefjords.w.uib.no/files/2020/08/grid.png)

*Illustration from the SeedClim project: In the first project, turf squares (top soil, roots and whole plants) were cut out and physically transplanted to other sites, as indicated by the arrows in the top left corner. The vegetation in these turfs was carefully monitored over several years in their new locations, to see how and how quickly the plants adapted to a new environment.*

**Selected papers using the sites:**

- coming soon


![Field work at Ulvehaugen = ALP1 site](https://tinyimg.io/i/q5EA7X5.jpg)


## LATICE-MIP sites
| Site/station name | Lon (X)     |	Lat (Y)     |	Elevation (Z) |
|------------------ | ------      |  --------   | -------------- |
| finseflux         |	7.527008533 | 60.59383774 | 1210  |
| hisaasen_upper    |	12.25481033 | 61.10516357 | 680   |
| hisaasen_lower    |	12.25089836 | 61.1115036  | 640   |
| iskoras           |	25.29547425 | 69.3408715  | 360   |
| aas               |	10.781667   | 59.660278   | 93.2  |
| hurdal            | 11.078142   | 60.372387   | NA    |

Commit message:

Documentation eva (#86)
* add url

* replace img links to tinyimg, new map

* Update contributing.md

* Update index.md

* Update index.md

* Create code_of_conduct.md

* Update mkdocs.yml

* Update index.md

* Update mkdocs.yml

add code of conduct

* Create about_.md

mostly copied from the repo README

* new About page, rm sym.link

* Update index.md

* Update index.md

compsets

* Update index.md

atm forcing

* Update contributing.md

* Update land-sites.md

* Update land-sites.md

* Update mkdocs.yml

* Update contributing.md

* Delete code_of_conduct.md

* Create user_guide.md

* Update contributing.md

* Update index.md

* Update index.md

* Update index.md

* Update index.md

* Update contributing.md

add docker readme link

* Update user_guide.md

* Update user_guide.md

* Update README.md

add links to logos

* Update about.md

add links to logos

* Update user_guide.md

* Update user_guide.md

* Update user_guide.md

* Update index.md

* Update user_guide.md

fix emojis

* Add files via upload

* Update user_guide.md

* Update user_guide.md

* Delete run_simulations.ipynb

* Add files via upload

* Update index.md

* Update docker.md

* Update index.md

* move compset header

* Update land-sites.md

* Update index.md

* Delete code_of_conduct.md

contents moved into contributing section

Co-authored-by: Lasse Keetz <57358428+lasseke@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/land-sites.md, after:

# NorESM land sites

This page will contain descriptions, meta data, and relevant reference hyperlinks
for the included land sites.

## Overview

We currently support 18 sites: 12 [Vestland climate grid](https://betweenthefjords.w.uib.no/vestland-climate-grid/) sites and 6 climate station sites of interest to the [LATICE](https://www.mn.uio.no/geo/english/research/groups/latice/) group. These are locations where there are climate stations and ecological field experiments that make these sites of particular interest.

<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://unpkg.com/leaflet@1.7.1/dist/leaflet.css"
   integrity="sha512-xodZBNTC5n17Xt2atTPuE1HxjVMSvLVW9ocqUKLsCC5CXdbqCmblAshOMAS6/keqq/sMZMZ19scR4PsZChSR7A=="
   crossorigin=""/>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css">
<div id="map"></div>
<script src="https://unpkg.com/leaflet@1.7.1/dist/leaflet.js"
   integrity="sha512-XQoYMqMTK8LvdxXYG3nZ448hOEQiglfqkJs1NOQV44cWnUrBc8PkAOcXy20w0vlaXaVUearIOBhiXZ5V3ynxwA=="
   crossorigin=""></script>
   
   

To plot site locations over a background map in R, you can also look at [this repo](https://github.com/evalieungh/map_scripts)
 
-------------------------------


## [Vestland climate grid](https://betweenthefjords.w.uib.no/vestland-climate-grid/) (SeedClim) sites


| Site name | Lon (X) | Lat (Y) | Elevation (Z) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ALP1 | 8.12343 | 61.0243 | 1208 |
| ALP2 | 7.27596 | 60.8231 | 1097 |
| ALP3 | 7.17561 | 60.8328 | 1213 |
| ALP4 | 6.41504 | 60.9335 | 1088 |
| SUB1 | 8.70466 | 60.8203 | 815  |
| SUB2 | 7.17666 | 60.8760 | 700  |
| SUB3 | 6.63028 | 61.0866 | 769  |
| SUB4 | 6.51468 | 60.5445 | 797  |
| BOR1 | 9.07876 | 61.0355 | 589  |
| BOR2 | 7.16982 | 60.8803 | 474  |
| BOR3 | 6.33738 | 60.6652 | 431  |
| BOR4 | 5.96487 | 60.6901 | 346  |

The Vestland climate grid, often called the SeedClim grid after the first major project that set it up, is a set of calcareous grassland sites across gradients of precipitation and temperature. The sites have been, and still are, host to many ecological reseach projects that study vegetation dynamics, plant interactions, functional traits and climate responses. Each site also has loggers for temperature and other climatic variables: ...

![Vestland climate grid](https://betweenthefjords.w.uib.no/files/2020/08/grid.png)

*Illustration from the SeedClim project: In the first project, turf squares (top soil, roots and whole plants) were cut out and physically transplanted to other sites, as indicated by the arrows in the top left corner. The vegetation in these turfs was carefully monitored over several years in their new locations, to see how and how quickly the plants adapted to a new environment.*

**Selected papers using the sites:**

- coming soon


![Field work at Ulvehaugen = ALP1 site](https://tinyimg.io/i/q5EA7X5.jpg)


## LATICE-MIP sites 🚧 NB! These coordinates are approximate and might change soon.
| Site/station name | Lon (X)     |	Lat (Y)     |	Elevation (Z) |
|------------------ | ------      |  --------   | -------------- |
| finseflux         |	7.527008533 | 60.59383774 | 1210  |
| hisaasen_upper    |	12.25481033 | 61.10516357 | 680   |
| hisaasen_lower    |	12.25089836 | 61.1115036  | 640   |
| iskoras           |	25.29547425 | 69.3408715  | 360   |
| aas               |	10.781667   | 59.660278   | 93.2  |
| hurdal            | 11.078142   | 60.372387   | NA    |
